readme.md, before:

# Ticket to Talk

Ticket to Talk is a cross platform application that aims to help encourage conversation between younger carers of those with dementia with those they are caring for. 
Users collect a series of ‘Tickets’ which they can use as prompts in conversations with who they are caring for. 
Tickets are media objects in the forms of pictures, sounds, and YouTube videos. 
Tickets are created in-app by selecting photos from the device’s library, taking new photos with the camera, or by using the microphone to record songs and sounds.

When using the app, the user will create a profile for themselves and, either: create a profile for who they want to talk to, or accept an invitation to contribute to an existing person if a profile has already been created. 
The tickets the user creates are attached to the person and shared between all those that contribute to the person. 
Each person is assigned an access level when they are invited and each ticket is also assigned one to help keep some sensitive data only between family and friends. 
When using the app, it may be difficult to create a library of tickets. 
To address this the app has an inspiration section, this provides prompts on what they can make tickets about, i.e. “Can you find a picture of Sarah’s old car?”. 
This helps the user build up a collection quickly.

To use the tickets as prompts the user is encouraged to create a ‘Conversation’. 
This is essentially a playlist which is given a date and time, a collection of tickets, and a notes section. 
Before the physical conversation the user would add a collection of tickets to the conversation and add some notes about what they want to talk about. 
This is so all of those using the application can see what the conversation is going to be about. 
During the physical conversation the user would press play and the tickets would be presented in a random order, where they can cycle through them at will. 
At the end of the conversation the user is prompted to update their notes on the conversation so other family members and carers can see how the interaction went. 
They can also use this to keep track of conversation topics that they found particularly successful.

The user can also save articles they or other users may find useful when dealing with dementia. 
They can make notes on these articles and share them with other users. 
They can also use this to save articles on interests of those they are talking about.

The app came to be after a series of workshops with younger carers of dementia as part of the DemYouth project. 
The idea comes from the participants concerns of not how to deal and approach someone with dementia but concerns of what to say in conversation with a grandparent or older relative where the inter-generational gap may mean a lack of common interests.

Commit message:

DW: + Updated readme and added MIT License

readme.md, after:

# Ticket to Talk
### API
##### **ticket-to-talk.com**

![Version: 1.0.1](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.0.1-brightgreen.svg) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

**Ticket to Talk hopes to encourage conversation between younger people and grandparents, friends or people they care for who are experiencing dementia. The app is designed to help collect and curate digital media (”tickets”) to be used to prompt and stimulate talk, conversation and reminiscence between younger people and those they are close to with dementia.**

##About

Ticket to Talk is a smartphone application that aims to help encourage conversation between younger people and grandparents, friends or people they care for who are experiencing dementia. The app is designed to help collect and curate digital media (”tickets”) to be used to prompt and stimulate talk, conversation and reminiscence between younger people and those they are close to with dementia.

Upon opening the app for the first time, you are asked to create a profile about you and a profile about the person with whom you’d like to talk with. You can also add other family members, close friends, or caregivers to the app so they can have access to, or contribute, content to peoples profiles. After this the app guides you to add bits of media - we call these “Tickets”. Tickets are things that can be used as prompts in conversations. Tickets are created in-app by selecting photos from the phone’s library, taking new photos or videos with the camera, or by using the microphone to record songs and sounds.

If you are struggling to come up with ideas for Tickets the app gives some small bits of inspiration to respond to, e.g. “Can you find a picture of Sarah’s old car?”. This helps you to build up a collection quickly. To use the tickets as prompts you are encouraged by the app to curate these into a “Conversation”. This is essentially a playlist of Tickets to be used as a shared resource in conversation. During an in-person conversation with a loved one or the person you care for, you would press play and the tickets would be presented to cycle through. At the end of the conversation the app will prompt you to make some short notes on how the conversation went. This can be useful to keep track of conversation topics that they went particularly well, and use these to develop new Tickets for future visits.

## Origin

The app has been developed as part of the DemYouth project, where we have been working with groups of young people with personal experiences of dementia. The DemYouth project has been supported through grants from the ESRC, EPSRC and Newcastle University’s Institute for Social Renewal. It is an ongoing collaboration between researchers at Newcastle and Northumbria Universities and partners at the Alzheimer’s Society and Youth Focus North East as part of the larger DemTalk project (www.demtalk.org.uk). The Ticket-to-Talk project has been contributed to by: Tony Young (Newcastle University), Daniel Welsh (Newcastle University), John Vines (Northumbria University), Roisin McNaney (Lancaster University), Kellie Morrissey (Newcastle University), Tom Schofield (Newcastle University), Leon Mexter (Youth Focus North East) and Jamie Mercer (Youth Focus North East).
